---
title: The black box
description: Understanding the inscrutable.
---

## Overcoming complexity

If one completely understands a system, one can *calculate outcomes* based on its known inner workings. A skilled chef has a great understanding of the physical properties and mechanics of kitchens and food, and can accurately calculate what will happen if they start cooking a steak. 

And so they do. After a few moments, however, they realize that they had forgot to turn on the stove. Alas, the skilled chef did not—in that instance—have a good enough understanding of the system.

This lack of understanding was only temporary. However, many of the systems we are interested in understanding—such as many biological systems—are simply too complex to ever develop a complete understanding of. The inner workings of complex systems remain largely unknown, so our strategy must change. 

Rather than futilely seek to calculate outcomes, we record them as they happen and document their *patterns*. If we also learn something about the inner workings of the system, that is a bonus! This process of learning through *pattern recognition* treats the system as a :EndToEndReference{
 href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_box"
 label="black box"
 title="Wikipedia: Black box"
 :paragraphs='[
    "In science, computing, and engineering, a black box is a system which can be viewed in terms of its inputs and outputs (or transfer characteristics), without any knowledge of its internal workings. Its implementation is \"opaque\" (black). The term can be used to refer to many inner workings, such as those of a transistor, an engine, an algorithm, the human brain, or an institution or government."
 ]'
}.

In fact, this is how the skilled chef learned how to cook a steak in the first place. The first few times in their life they cooked a steak, it probably did not turn out great. They learned cooking through pattern recognition, also known as trial and error. Indeed, the chef does not need to understand the inner workings of the kitchen at all (and we may never know if they do)!

## Careless confidence

Often, the box is gray rather than completely black. Having a partial understanding of the inner workings of the system allows us to guess—with varying accuracy—patterns that have not yet been observed. Unfortunately, these guesses are not seldom both convincing and wrong. 

As the black box evolves into increasingly lighter shades of gray, it becomes treacherously tempting to confidently treat it as white. 